// Planet Earth II e01

Looking down from two miles above the surface of the Earth it's impossible not to be impressed by the sheer grandeur and splendour and power of the natural world. -- Глядя вниз с высоты в 2 мили над поверхностью Земли, невозможно не впечатлиться абсолютным (чистым) величием (грандиозностью), и великолепием, и мощью естественного мира (природы).

The struggles to survive on these remote lands reflect the challenges faced by all life on Earth. -- Борьба за выживание в этих отдалённых землях отражает вызовы, с которыми приходится сталкиваться всякой жизни на земле.

Home to the pygmy three-toed sloth. -- Дом для карликого трёхпалого ленивца.

This is a male and life here suits him well. -- Это самец, и жизнь тут ему хорошо ему подходит.

Island life may seem idyllic but it comes at a price. -- Островная жизнь может выглядеть идиллистично, но за всё приходится платит.

And he needs a mate. -- И ему нужна пара (самка).

(SCREECHING) That's an enticing call from a female. -- (Визг) Это завлекающий зов от самки.

He does his best to put on a turn of speed. -- Он старается включить ускорение.

The world's entire population of pygmy sloths is isolated on a speck of land no bigger than New York's Central Park. -- Вся мировая популяция карликовых ленивцев изолирована на пятнышке суши не больше Нью-Йоркский центральный парк.

The size of an island has a huge influence on the fate of those cast away there. -- Размер острова имеет огромное влияние на судьбу тех, кто заброшен туда.

But reptiles, being cold-blooded, need only about a tenth of the food a carnivorous mammal would. -- Но рептилии, будучи хладнокровными, нуждаются только в десятой части, которая была бы нужна хищному млекопитающему.

Carnivore/(carnivorouse animal) is an animal feeding on other animals. -- Плотоядное - это животное, питающееся другими животными.

A single meal will last a dragon a month. -- Одного единственного обеда ящеру хватит на месяц.

She's receptive. -- Она воспреимчива.

So far, so good. -- Пока всё хорошо (о каком-то процессе, идиома).

But he's strayed into someone else's patch. -- Но он набрёл на чей-то чужой клочёк (территории).

But if rivals are closely matched, the outcome can be uncertain. -- Но если соперники

Muscular tails strike with the power of sledgehammers.

And their serrated teeth are as sharp as steak knives.

Each tries to topple his opponent.

But some islands are immense.

This baby sifaka has a hard life ahead of it.

He's been born in the most arid and hostile corner of Madagascar's vast landscape.

If he is to survive here, he has much to learn.

The spiny forest is like a desert.

Moving from tree to tree is a perilous business.

Here, nearly all the plants are covered with ferocious spines.

They provide the only food and water to sustain the family.

Some erupt explosively, others pour out rivers of molten rock.

Young and still volcanically active, it's a desolate place.

They are vegetarians, but since there's little food for them on the land, marine iguanas graze on the sea floor.

Crabs feed on dead skin on the iguana's back and, in turn, provide a welcome exfoliation service.

While smaller lizards prey on the flies that pester the colony.

Marine iguanas lay their eggs in sand.

In June, when the hatchlings emerge, they are vulnerable.

On flat ground, a baby iguana can outrun a racer snake.

But others are waiting in ambush.

Another hatchling has its first glimpse of a dangerous world.

So if the hatchling keeps its nerve, it may just avoid detection.

The lucky survivors can begin learning the unique way of life demanded by this hostile island.

But, when the brief summer comes, temperatures rise and winds slacken.

All here to breed before winter returns.

This is an excellent place for them to dig their nesting burrows, for no predators have managed to get here.

Every one of them eager to make the most of the short breeding season.

They reunite here to breed.

At first, he's a little coy.

But when you have been apart for six months, some things can't be rushed.

Islands in warm tropical waters don't experience seasonal extremes.

The Seychelles, lying off the coast of East Africa, provide a sanctuary for sea birds all the year round.

Fairy terns are permanent residents.

They take a fairly relaxed view about what constitutes a nest.

But behind the beauty, there's a sinister side.

The Seychelles fody makes quick work of an unattended egg.

She knows something's not quite right, but her drive to incubate is strong.

If a fledgling, testing out its wings, drops to the ground, it can get covered with the seeds.

Entangled and weighed down, if it can't free itself, the youngster will starve.

The pisonia may have failed to disperse these seeds but it will soon have fertiliser for its roots.

The fairy tern laid another egg, and now she has a tiny chick to feed.

By the time it fledges, the pisonia seeds will have dispersed, and the danger they brought will be gone.

Once a year, they must all return to the sea to breed, and the march of the red crabs is one of the greatest natural spectacles on earth.

An invader has occupied this island.

Blinded and confused they're doomed.

Yet some islands are so remote that few humans have even set foot on them.

Parents take turns at guarding them until they're large enough to be left alone.

He's been fishing 50 miles offshore, but now he's not far away.

For him, however, and for all the other parents here, the worst of the journey is still to come.

Tiny claws help him to get whatever grip he can on the rough lava.

For these commuters, it's rush hour.

But as he makes the same journey every other day, he should be able to do it with his eyes closed.

It's true that there can be safety in numbers, but numbers can also be something of a problem when you're trying to find your own nest.

This formidable commute is the price these penguins pay for sanctuary.

The expedition to film on the island of Zavodovski was the most intrepid shoot of the series.

To ensure its success, the team have called in Antarctic expert Jerome Poncet, one of the few people to have set foot on the island.

And this is the planet's roughest ocean.

After seven long days and nights at sea, they get their first glimpse of the final destination.

It's actually quite surreal after a whole year, trying to put the expedition together.

The explorers who discovered this place spoke of the stench of sulphurous gases, treacherous waters, and astonishing numbers of penguins.

Though the boat'll stay nearby, they will need to be self-sufficient.

But that means taking a tonne of equipment up this cliff.

Just get to that lot to help.

Many flippers make light work.

They work all day getting the gear ashore.

They choose a sheltered place that won't disturb the locals.

But since most of the penguins won't have seen a human being before, they seem keen to pop over and visit.

The team set off to start documenting the daily lives of the penguins, and what they find is astonishing.

As soon as you walk over that ridge, you sort of get a tingly feeling, because I've never seen that many animals in one spot.

The whole landscape is full of little black and white penguins waddling around.

As the snow melts, it creates an unforeseen problem.

We purposely chose this campsite because it was a place where the penguins didn't seem to go.

It's because of the spray and because of some run-off, so we are literally in a bit of a bog.

You kind of get used to it at night, just hearing a constant splat on top of the tent.

But, as you can see, all of the kit, I'm afraid that's getting splat on as well.

And, when the wind changes, it brings a noxious reminder that they're camping on an active volcano.

It's the first time we've smelt sulphur, which is welcome relief from smelling penguins.

The penguins are surfing here, getting battered on these big boulders.

Now and then you just get a penguin that gets catapulted 15 metres in the air it's totally ludicrous.

I mean, they're trying so hard to get up the beach with broken legs and bleeding and very, you know, sobering, really.

After witnessing the struggles, the penguins must endure, the team now face the same problem.

Getting off the island.

With another storm coming in, they decide to take their chance.

Jerome has seconds to get in and out between the waves.

Or the Zodiac could tip leaving them all stranded.

Hurray, that's the first box off the island.

What took a day to get ashore must be off in minutes.

And the swell is getting bigger.

Their window of opportunity is closing.

Look at this swell now, watch out, watch out! The equipment's off, but now the team has to follow.

Luckily it didn't come to that.

Next time, we ascend into the planet's highest peaks to discover a spectacular but hostile world, where only the toughest animals can endure.


